[WebHost Docs] Current API documententation (#4887)
ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago: docs/webhost api.md

```
[
    {
        "creation_time": "Fri, 18 Apr 2025 19:46:53 GMT",
        "last_activity": "Fri, 18 Apr 2025 21:16:02 GMT",
        "last_port": 52122,
        "room_id": "90ae5f9b-177c-4df8-ac53-9629fc3bff7a",
        "seed_id": "efbd62c2-aaeb-4dda-88c3-f461c029cef6",
        "timeout": 7200,
        "tracker": "cf6989c0-4703-45d7-a317-2e5158431171"
    },
    {
        "creation_time": "Fri, 18 Apr 2025 20:36:42 GMT",
        "last_activity": "Fri, 18 Apr 2025 20:36:46 GMT",
        "last_port": 56884,
        "room_id": "14465c05-d08e-4d28-96bd-916f994609d8",
        "seed_id": "a528e34c-3b4f-42a9-9f8f-00a4fd40bacb",
        "timeout": 7200,
        "tracker": "4e624bd8-32b6-42e4-9178-aa407f72751c"
    }
]
```

### `/get_seeds`  
<a name="getseeds"></a>
Retreives a list of all seeds currently owned by the session token.  
Each item in the list will contain a dict with the seed's details:
- Seed ID (`seed_id`)
- Creation timestamp (`creation_time`)
- A list of player slots (`players`)
  - Each item in the list will contain a list of the slot name and game

Example:
```
[
    {
        "creation_time": "Fri, 18 Apr 2025 19:46:52 GMT",
        "players": [
            [

>                 "Quasky_OOT5",

Reviewer: Probably want to make this output a generic "Player1", "Player2" example instead of using an actual room you're playing.

Author: All of the data is dummy data anyway. I generated it with my local instance, then transposed archipelago.gg for everything :P 

I'll make all the output generic for documentation sake though :)

Author: Made all content generic.

# API Guide

Archipelago has a rudimentary API that can be queried by endpoints.
The API is a work-in-progress and should be improved over time.

The following API requests are formatted as: `https://<Archipelago URL>/api/<endpoint>`

The returned data will be formated in a combination of JSON lists or dicts, with their keys or values being notated in `blocks` (if applicable)

Current endpoints:
- Datapackage API
    - [`/datapackage`](#datapackage)
    - [`/datapackage/<string:checksum>`](#datapackagestringchecksum)
    - [`/datapackage_checksum`](#datapackagechecksum)
- Generation API
    - [`/generate`](#generate)
    - [`/status/<suuid:seed>`](#status)
- Room API
    - [`/room_status/<suuid:room_id>`](#roomstatus)
- User API
    - [`/get_rooms`](#getrooms)
    - [`/get_seeds`](#getseeds)

> ### UUID vs SUUID

Reviewer 2: A potential solution:
```suggestion
## UUID vs SUUID
```

# API Guide

Archipelago has a rudimentary API that can be queried by endpoints.
The API is a work-in-progress and should be improved over time.

The following API requests are formatted as: `https://<Archipelago URL>/api/<endpoint>`

The returned data will be formated in a combination of JSON lists or dicts, with their keys or values being notated in `blocks` (if applicable)

Current endpoints:
- Datapackage API
  - [`/datapackage`](#datapackage)
  - [`/datapackage/<string:checksum>`](#datapackagestringchecksum)
  - [`/datapackage_checksum`](#datapackagechecksum)
- Generation API
  - [`/generate`](#generate)
  - [`/status/<suuid:seed>`](#status)
- Room API
  - [`/room_status/<suuid:room_id>`](#roomstatus)
- User API
  - [`/get_rooms`](#getrooms)
  - [`/get_seeds`](#getseeds)

### UUID vs SUUID

> Currently, the server reports back the item's `UUID` (Universally Unique Identifier).  

Author: I condensed longer explications into a single paragraph and changed their wording slightly to make them read better.

Submits a game to the WebHost for generation.  
**This endpoint only accepts a POST HTTP request.**  

There are two ways to submit data for generation; With a file, and with JSON.

#### With a file:
Have your ZIP of yaml(s) or a single yaml, and submit a POST request to the `/generate` endpoint.  
If the options are valid, you'll be returned a successful generation response. (see [Generation Response](#generation-response))

Example using the python requests library:
```
file = {'file': open('Games.zip', 'rb')}
req = requests.post("https://archipelago.gg/api/generate", files=file)
```

#### With JSON:
Compile your weights/yaml data into a dict. Then insert that into a dict with the key `"weights"`.  
Finally, submit a POST request to the `/generate` endpoint.  
If the weighted options are valid, you'll be returned a successful generation response (see [Generation Response](#generation-response))

Example using the python requests library:
```
data = {"Test":{"game": "Factorio","name": "Test","Factorio": {}},}
weights={"weights": data}
req = requests.post("https://archipelago.gg/api/generate", json=weights)
```

### Generation Response:
#### Successful Generation:

> Upon successful generation you'll be sent a JSON dict response detailing the generation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upon successful generation, you'll be sent a JSON dict response detailing the generation:
```

- The UUID of the generation `detail`
- The SUUID of the generation `encoded`
- The response text `text`
- The page that will resolve to the seed/room generation page once generation has completed `url`

> - And the API status page of the generation `wait_api_url` (see [Status Endpoint](#status))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The API status page of the generation `wait_api_url` (see [Status Endpoint](#status))
```

Example:
```
{
    "detail": "19878f16-5a58-4b76-aab7-d6bf38be9463",
    "encoded": "GYePFlpYS3aqt9a_OL6UYw",
    "text": "Generation of seed 19878f16-5a58-4b76-aab7-d6bf38be9463 started successfully.",
    "url": "http://archipelago.gg/wait/GYePFlpYS3aqt9a_OL6UYw",
    "wait_api_url": "http://archipelago.gg/api/status/GYePFlpYS3aqt9a_OL6UYw"
}
```

#### Failed Generation:

> Upon failed generation, you'll be returned a single keypair. The key will always be: `text`  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upon failed generation, you'll be returned a single key-value pair. The key will always be `text`  
```

The value will give you a hint as to what may have gone wrong.
- Options without tags, and a 400 status code
- Options in a string, and a 400 status code
- Invalid file/weight string, `No options found. Expected file attachment or json weights.` with a 400 status code
- Too many slots for the server to process, `Max size of multiworld exceeded` with a 409 status code

> In a single edgecase you'll be sent a dict with two keypairs `text` and `detail` with a 400 status code  
> If the generation detects a issue in generation, you'll be notified with:
> - Summary of issue in `text`
> - Detailed issed in `detail`

Reviewer 2: I think it makes more sense to flip this around, so the reader isn't left wondering what the edge case is
```suggestion
If the generation detects a issue in generation, you'll be sent a dict with two key-value pairs (`text` and `detail`) and a 400 status code. The values will be:
- Summary of issue in `text`
- Detailed issue in `detail`
```

In the event of an unhandled server exception, you'll be provided a dict with a single key `text`:
- Exception, `Uncought Exception: <error>` with a 500 status code

### `/status/<suuid:seed>`
<a name="status"></a>

> Retreives the status of the seed's generation.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Retrieves the status of the seed's generation.  
```

> This endpoint will return a dict with a single keypair. The key will always be: `text`  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This endpoint will return a dict with a single key-vlaue pair. The key will always be `text`  
```

The value will tell you the status of the generation:

> - Generation was completed, `Generation done` with a 201 status code
> - Generation request was not found, `Generation not found` with a 404 status code
> - Generation of the seed failed, `Generation failed` with a 500 status code
> - Generation is in progress still, `Generation running` with a 202 status code

Reviewer 2: I think colons make sense here, but the styling is inconsistent throughout the doc. Using all of the following methods: spaces, nothing, parentheses, commas, and colons
```suggestion
- Generation was completed: `Generation done` with a 201 status code
- Generation request was not found: `Generation not found` with a 404 status code
- Generation of the seed failed: `Generation failed` with a 500 status code
- Generation is in progress still: `Generation running` with a 202 status code
```

# API Guide

> Archipelago has a rudementary API that is able to be queried by endpoints.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Archipelago has a rudimentary API that can be queried by endpoints.
```

The API is a work-in-progress and should be improved over time.

> All API requests will be formatted as: `https://<Archipelago URL>/api/<endpoint>`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All API requests must be formatted as: `https://<Archipelago URL>/api/<endpoint>`
```
technically both correct, but "must" more implies that you need to do it, "will" is more like a result of "must" I guess?

Reviewer 4: imo that line is less a requirement for the client (as "must" reads to me) and more an fyi that the rest of the page makes this assumption

Reviewer 4: ~~that still reads as conformance language to me~~

"following API requests are formatted as:" ?

Reviewer 3: That works o:

Author: I agree with the more declarative language.
"The following API requests are formatted as:"

## Datapackage Endpoints

> These endpoints are used by applications to aquire and validate they have a current datapackage for item and location IDs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These endpoints are used by applications to acquire and validate that they have a current datapackage for item and location IDs.
```

`/datapackage`  
Fetches the current datapackage from the WebHost.

`/datapackage/<string:checksum>`    
Fetches datapackage by checksum.

`/datapackage_checksum`  

> Fetches the checksum of the current static datapackage on the WebHost.

Reviewer 4: not sure how i'd improve it, but this language implies it's a single checksum returned not a dict of game: checksum for their datapackages in the static datapackage

Author: I clarified the language and added examples on the data returned.

## Generation Endpoint
These endpoints are used internally for the WebHost to generate games and validate their generation, and also used by external applications to generate games automatically.

`(POST)` `/generate`  

> Submits a game to the WebHost for generation.

Reviewer: https://github.com/LegendaryLinux/ArchipelaBot/blob/master/slashCommandCategories/gameGenerator.js#L63-L71
This is how ArchipelaBot uses the API.

> Submits a game to the WebHost for generation.

Author: I managed to scrape together enough information in order to write up a pretty good rundown of how this endpoint works

`/status/<suuid:seed>`  
Retreives the status of the seed's generation.

## Room Endpoints
Endpoints to fetch information of the active WebHost room with the supplied room_ID.

`/room_status/<suuid:room_id>`  
Retrieves:
- Tracker UUID (`tracker`)

> - Player List (Slot name, and Game) (`players`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Player list (Slot name, and Game) (`players`)
```
Other items in this list do not capitalize each word, so this shouldn't either

- Last known hosted port (`last_port`)
- Last activity timestamp (`last_activity`)
- Timeout counter (`timeout`)

> - Downloads for files required for gameplay (`downloads`)

Author: Expanded each of the responses with examples and details on what datatypes are sent back

## User Endpoints
User endpoints can get room and seed details from the current session tokens (cookies)

`/get_rooms`  
Retreives all rooms currently owned by the session token.  
Each room will have:
- Room ID (`room_ID`)
- Seed ID (`seed_id`)

> - Creation Timestamp (`creation_time`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Creation timestamp (`creation_time`)
```
Same as previous

- Last activity timestamp (`last_activity`)

> - Last known AP Port (`last_port`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Last known AP port (`last_port`)
```
Same as previous

- Room tiumeout counter (`timeout`)
- Room tracker UUID (`tracker`)

`/get_seeds`  
Retreives all seeds currently owned by the session token.  
Each seed will have:
- Seed ID (`seed_id`)
- Creation timestamp (`creation_time`)

> - Player Slots (`players`)
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Player slots (`players`)
```
Same as previous

# API Guide

Archipelago has a rudementary API that is able to be queried by endpoints.
The API is a work-in-progress and should be improved over time.

All API requests will be formatted as: `https://<Archipelago URL>/api/<endpoint>`

## Datapackage Endpoints
These endpoints are used by applications to aquire and validate they have a current datapackage for item and location IDs.

`/datapackage`  
Fetches the current datapackage from the WebHost.

`/datapackage/<string:checksum>`    

> Fetches databackage by checksum.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Fetches datapackage by checksum.
```
data :b: ackage

`/datapackage_checksum`  

> Fetches checksum of current datapackage.

Reviewer 5: This checksum is that of the WebHost's current "static" datapackage

## Generation Endpoint

> These endpoints are used internaly for the WebHost to generate games, and validate their generation.

Reviewer 5: internally* but also all of these endpoints are accessible externally and are already in use in that way.

`(POST)` `/generate`  
Submits a game to the WebHost for generation.

`/status/<suuid:seed>`  
Retreives the status of the seed's generation.

## Room Endpoints

> Room endpoints will fetch foom information of the supplied room_ID.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Endpoints to fetch information of the active WebHost room with the supplied room_ID.
```

`/room_status/<suuid:room_id>`  

> Retreives:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Retrieves:
```

- Tracker UUID (`tracker`)
- Player List (Slot name, and Game) (`players`)
- Last known hosted port (`last_port`)
- Last activity timestamp (`last_activity`)
- Timeout counter (`timeout`)
- Downloads for files required for gameplay (`downloads`)

> `/room_received_items/<suuid:room_id>`  

Reviewer: Remove this one

Author: Done!
